OWASP Top 10 Cloud Security Risks
---------------------------------
1. Accountability and Data Ownership


+ cloud service providers have partial or full control over data
+ To minimize risk, organizations need to understand which authentication and encryption protocols their cloud providers use and their threat reporting and monitoring policies.


2. User Identity Federation

+ User authentication and authorization in cloud computing platforms is crucial to enterprise security. 
+ cybercriminals can easily gain access to cloud platforms if this solution is not implemented correctly.
+ Organizations need to implement advanced identity and access management solutions like provisioning software, password management tools, security policy enforcement tools, identity repositories, and reporting and monitoring apps to mitigate risk.



3. Regulatory Compliance

+ The physical location of the data center used by cloud providers to store data can lead to regulatory compliance issues.
+ Data storage privacy laws can differ between countries, including legal access by authorities, and tax law variances.
+ To avoid compliance problems, choose a cloud provider willing to share its data centers’ locations.


4. Business Continuity and Resiliency

+ Cloud service providers are responsible for ensuring continuous operations in case of an incident. 
+ To ensure this, organizations must create a robust business continuity and disaster recovery plans. 
+ Organizations need to ensure that their Service Level Agreements (SLAs) cover a resilient business continuity process.


5. User Privacy and Secondary Usage of Data

+ Public cloud environments use the public Internet to transfer data, making it available to anyone who wants to use or purchase it.
+ many integrated services use shared settings, and data is frequently collected to serve targeted ads, placing the user’s information privacy at risk.
+ Organizations need to verify the settings of user data usage in their cloud configuration and third-party integrations.

6. Service and Data Integration

+ The interconnected nature of cloud services and different encryption levels can put data at risk during migration to and from the cloud.
+ To mitigate risk and protect information confidentiality, strong data encryption protocols, like SSL/TLS, should be enforced.
+ Regardless of the protocols used, organizations should regularly verify that data is being sent securely.



7. Multi-Tenancy and Physical Security

+ In cloud computing, multi-tenancy refers to shared hosting, where server resources are separated between different users.
+ it can lead to security vulnerabilities if server resources are not logically separated.
+ To minimize the risk, cloud providers should configure the server for logical separation to isolate each user’s resources.
+ Encryption technologies like Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) can also help prevent shared infrastructure.  


8. Incidence Analysis and Forensic Support

+ The incident analysis process involves investigating log files and associated data. 
+ incident analysis can be difficult because the necessary log files are not centralized and not easily accessible. 
+ Use third-party monitoring solutions and Virtual Machine (VM) images to ensure the immediate accessibility of your log files.


9. Cloud Infrastructure Security

+ Cloud infrastructure includes the resources needed to build a cloud environment, i.e., storage, hardware, network, and virtualization
+ Organizations can apply traditional security measures, such as applying security patches and updates and regular vulnerability assessments.
+ They can also use advanced practices like isolating infrastructure components with network Access Control Lists (ACLs) and configuring administrative roles and privileges.


10. Non-Production Environment Exposure

+ Staging environments are typically less secure than production ones to enable easier testing and development.
+ Developers often use generic credentials in staging, even though it can contain live data for testing purposes.
+ As a result, attackers can exploit the weak security in non-production setups to steal data related to product development.
+ Avoid using real or sensitive data in non-production environments. Ensure that anyone working in these environments has privileged access measures in place.



























